the question I'm asking you in this
video is very simple and I'd like you to
reflect on it sincerely if you're
watching this video alone I'd like you
to really ask yourself these questions
if you're watching it with your
girlfriend boyfriend husband or wife I'd
really like you to ask one of these
questions and think it over the most
general most basic question I'm asking
is why would we in the vegan movement
expect to have better outcomes better
results than the anti-abortion movement
if we are using the same tactics do you
believe that in your lifetime the vegan
movement will have more money at its
disposal than the anti-abortion movement
do you believe that during your lifetime
veganism will have more adherents and
more passionate adherents more firebrand
activists and advocates than the
anti-abortion movement do you believe
that during your lifetime veganism will
have more political representation and
institutional support than the Catholic
Church the Catholic Church doesn't just
run small foundations for legal advocacy
on abortion and reproduction issues the
Catholic Church owns
universities the Catholic Church owns
schools school districts school wards
the Catholic Church has hospitals yeah
churches too maybe you've heard of these
things it's really difficult to
exaggerate the enormity of scale that
we're talking about when you consider
what the anti-abortion movement is in
Western Europe the United States and
Canada and when you think about the
enormous institutions that support it
the Catholic Church various Protestant
churches so on and so forth
the cultural depth as well as the
resources not just financial resources
and the passion of the advocates
involved and yet within our lifetimes
the anti-abortion movement has failed
and I think we all feel pretty confident
that it's going to continue to fail the
decrease in the rate of abortions per
woman per woman of age where she could
have abortions the decrease in the rate
of abortion as soon as you measure it
relative to the number of live births it
is so mild that pretty much every
analysis you read of why the statistic
has changed in the way that has
struggles to attribute any of the change
whatsoever to the anti-abortion movement
it's unbelievable millions and billions
of dollars spent over these years and
the various forms of street activism you
know confrontational how shall I put
this mildly invidious activism of
anti-abortion activists themselves it's
much easier to link the declining rate
of abortions per person to better access
to condoms oh yeah if you're talking
about the 1970s compared to the 21st
century
people have much easier access to
condoms this leads to fewer abortions
easier access to the birth control pill
huge change 70s 80s 90s doesn't easier
access to information thanks to the
internet it's easier than it ever was to
figure out how to properly use a condom
how to properly use a birth control pill
to look up medical advice for free
instantly on every conceivable topic
linked to reproduction whatever method
you want to use um
there were many profound social changes
including changes in religious attitudes
changes in the status of the Catholic
Church changes in demographics what
percentage of people living in
California were ethnically Chinese in
the Year 1970 what percentage are
ethnically Chinese now Chinese people
have different attitudes towards
abortion different attitudes toward
sexuality child birth jail
okay what percentage of people were
Hispanic in the United States of America
nineteen seventy or percentage or
Hispanic today these changes all have
been of greater significance greater
importance to changing the rate of
abortions in the United States of
America then the street activism then
the tactics for advocacy disruption etc
that the anti-abortion movement has
engaged in does anyone really believe
that the vegan movement could be equally
successful or even more successful if
you're engaging in the same sorts of
tactics in the same sort of
confrontational and disruptive civil
disobedience that anti-abortion
activists engage in I think if you ask
yourself these questions honestly what
you're going to discover is that you
don't believe in civil disobedience you
don't maybe you want to maybe you want
to believe that with the same pious
faith as a religious fanatic who goes
out holding a sign telling people that
if they have an abortion they'll go to
hell they go and do this again and again
someone who goes out and screams angrily
at women who are on their way into an
abortion clinic telling them of what
they're doing is murder and you know
what there's a similar sort of
fanaticism and people who develop the
sort of genteel people skills to go out
and try to advise and counsel women
against having abortions there are all
kinds of foundations that take that
approach instead and of course there
were then all the advocacy groups that
are working within the halls of power
shall we say within the legal system
within the parliamentary system so on
and so forth is this enormous panoply of
tools and resources at the disposal of
the anti-abortion movement and there's a
huge percentage of the population
backing it many of them already
organized
to church groups into institutions like
Catholic schools universities hospitals
but you have the church themselves
meeting once a week singing in harmony
in a way that vegans will never meet
will never be organized will never have
common cultural ground will never have
common festivals will never sing the
same tune
if you reproduce the same tactics as the
anti-abortion movement you will fail and
I think that all it takes all it takes
to prove yourself is just a moment of
detached reflection on how
counterproductive it really is to
confront strangers on the street
screaming that Meat Is Murder